it's late night with christo so popular
on the phones tonight we were
running a little bit behind time but we
were also
discussing tonight class there are
various reasons why we're talking about
class one of them being
princess anne's living room photo and uh
the documentary that will be on
television
and uh it's uh by rapper in scotland
i'll
give you more details after the news at
midnight so i want to get straight to
our guest to discuss this
gary stevenson an inequality economist
former city trader
live via video link evening to you gary
hi christo nice to meet you and you
thanks for taking the time to talk to us
tonight here
on talk radio so um
an inequality economy so obviously you
know that's looking at the
the economic side of inequality but does
that mean that
that is an inequality that is driven by
class does class
still truly exist in great britain in
the year 2021
personally for me i mean the experiences
of my life a little bit about me i come
from
a place called ilford in east london and
um i grew up from quite a poor
background
studied hard in school i was able to go
to london school of economics and oxford
university and eventually
get a job in the city um
for me class was a massive massive thing
i mean for me a big thing which i
realized these spaces i went into
these universities these jobs there was
a real sense for me that
there wasn't basically anybody there
from my sort of background
and i think a big thing really is um
it's that experience of have you ever
woken up and looked in the mirror and
thought
if i don't make this i don't know if i'm
ever going to be secure
i'm never going to be able to buy a
house i'm never going to be able to have
a family
you know people from where i'm from me
and my parents we've we've had that
experience
i'm sure a lot of listeners will have
had that experience as well
but in these spaces you know oxford
university a lot of these jobs in the
city
if these guys mess up if they make a
mistake if they lose their job
when they need that 70 grand 100 grand
deposit to buy a house they can go to
their parents and get you know so
they've never had that experience of am
i going to be safe is my family going to
be safe you know and right now i'm sure
a lot of listeners
will be feeling that every day
absolutely exactly yeah and
and there's there's so much i want to
talk to you about this and
because there is there was a really
interesting report um
a couple of months ago and it kind of
boomerangs it comes back now and then
and you'll be very familiar with this
about the
issues facing working class white boys
and the fact that they are now um a
demographic especially in schools and
especially when it comes to
um getting further in life that
appear to be not doing so well they
appear to be you know falling behind
do you think with really good intentions
and i don't say this in
trying to be overtly controversial but
do you think with really good intentions
we've concentrated so much on
on racial inequality for good reasons in
this country
and we've perhaps forgotten that there
is still
actually a real class inequality in this
country
that actually goes far broader than race
you could be of
of a working class background whatever
race you might be i mean i'd say
obviously you know
people who see me can tell that's the
background i'm from from a working class
white background
i mean the thing i see basically is you
know in the path i've traveled in my
life you know
i went to school out in east london you
know with people from all different
colors there
um and then growing up and getting jobs
in the city
one thing i've seen is to be honest
really like obviously i can only speak
from my background but
people from my class really regardless
of what color
race religion they are they're not
making it into these spaces
that is the biggest thing for me you
know because why
well for a variety of reasons for a
variety of reasons and you know
it would take a long time to go into
that i think the first thing is they're
not getting into the top universities
and you know i went to university i
studied economics and this is a madness
really because you know economics is the
study of
you know the finances in our society you
know it's not like physics you know you
drop a rich person and a poor person out
of the window they're going to fall at
the same speed
but the economy for these people is
massively different and yet you go to
the
oxford university economics department
it's 50 professors
who all of them they've never struggled
for money wearing capes teaching in
castles you know what i mean
these guys don't know what a situation
situation is like for ordinary people
so for me to be honest and you know you
can ask people from different ethnic
backgrounds for me i feel that
regardless of ethnic background people
from where i'm from and the place where
i'm from has people from a lot of
different ethnic backgrounds
none of us are making it you know we
need to get more people from all
different
colors from the or from the ordinary
class into these places
what makes someone because this all
started actually not just because of
these stories but
but someone was asking about the working
class presenter line up here on tour
radio um
i was saying well i'm probably working
class and that came from where i felt
like i'd come from
with my parents and my parents being you
know my son of an immigrant and
you know not being uh educated into
further education my dad leaving school
at a very young age um but people say no
you're not working class because of
where you are in your life so how do you
equate
whether someone is working class what
actually makes you work in class yeah i
mean this is a question i get all the
time you know because
you know like yourself you know i feel
that i come from working class
backgrounds you know we were poor
growing up you know
i was living in a crowded house in a
small
a bunk within a small room next to the
railway you know i felt poor growing up
and i felt like i didn't have much but
i've worked in the city and i've made a
lot of money and i'm not pouring out and
sometimes people turn around to me and
they say you're not working class
but for me you know it's like i said
before it's that question you know have
you been in a situation where you've
looked at yourself and said look i'm
hanging on here and if i slip
i'm going to fall all the way to the
bottom you know what i mean and
some people knew that when there was a
kid and they made money and now they're
secure
but the fact is people know how it feels
to not have security to not have
somebody's going to catch you if you
fall
and increasingly now more and more
people are in that situation where
they're thinking
no matter how hard i work am i ever
going to get a house you know
and i felt like that when i was a kid
and you know i know that i'm lucky i
know that i'm blessed and i'm thankful
for everything that i've made
but the truth is i've seen both sides of
the queen i know that
ordinary people they're looking at
themselves and they're thinking
do i have a chance to even have a family
to have a house and then there's other
people
their parents will just buy them on when
they turn 21 you know so
for me and obviously i'm an economist so
i'm going to say this
it's about that question of do you have
security do you have that chance
and do you know that you're going to be
safe and there's a lot of people out
there
they don't know if they're going to be
safe you know that's why i'm i'm out
here trying to
give economic advice to ordinary people
on my socials and stuff because
i know how difficult is for ordinary
people and for me i think that's what
makes a difference
it's really interesting to talk to you
we must get you back on some time when
time is not against us because i found
this this absolutely fascinating but
gary stevenson in the meantime really
appreciate you
taking the time to talk to us tonight
here on talk radio do you agree with
what gary's got to say about what makes
you
work in class and is it about that
safety net that security net is it about
where you come from from your parents
are you always working class even if
you've got money
you've just heard from gary he says he's
made a lot of money in his life
but he still considers himself working
class zero three double four four double
nine one thousand we'll explore this
a little bit more coming up in the next
hour
and we'll also take some more of your
calls about the uh well just the
the absolute frustration about no road
map out a lockdown